Multiple Standby Documentation (#346)
citusdata/pg_auto_failover: README.md

[![Slack Status](http://slack.citusdata.com/badge.svg)](https://slack.citusdata.com)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/pg-auto-failover/badge/?version=latest)](https://pg-auto-failover.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

pg_auto_failover is an extension and service for PostgreSQL that monitors
and manages automated failover for a Postgres cluster. It is optimized for
simplicity and correctness and supports Postgres 10 and newer.

pg_auto_failover supports several Postgres architectures and implements a
safe automated failover for your Postgres service. It is possible to get
started with only two nodes, which will be given the roles of primary and

> secondary by the monitor.

Author: Used the phrase "two data nodes". I guess it's clear enough that way now?

  - a PostgreSQL service to operate the pg_auto_failover monitor
  - a pg_auto_failover keeper to operate your PostgreSQL instances, see `pg_autoctl run`

Starting with pg_auto_failover version 1.4, it is possible to implement a

> production architecture with 3 Postgres nodes, for better data availability

Author: Fixed.

guarantees.

> ![pg_auto_failover Architecture with 3 nodes](docs/tikz/arch-multi-standby.svg?raw=true "pg_auto_failover Architecture with 3 nodes")

Author: Good point, done now.

By default, pg_auto_failover uses synchronous replication and every node
that reaches the secondary state is added to synchronous_standby_names on
the primary. With pg_auto_failover 1.4 it is possible to remove a node from

> the _replication quorum_ of Postgres.

Author: That would be good, but we won't have the links for https://pg-auto-failover.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest until this PR is merged...

`pg_config --bindir`, alongside other PostgreSQL tools such as `pg_ctl` and
`pg_controldata`.

## Trying pg_auto_failover on your local computer

Once the building and installation is done, follow those steps:

  1. Install a run a monitor

     ~~~ bash
	 $ export PGDATA=./monitor
	 $ export PGPORT=5000
	 $ pg_autoctl create monitor --ssl-self-signed --hostname localhost --auth trust --run
     ~~~

  2. Get the Postgres URI (connection string) for the monitor node:

     ~~~ bash
     $ pg_autoctl show uri --monitor --pgdata ./monitor
	 postgres://autoctl_node@localhost:5000/pg_auto_failover?sslmode=require
     ~~~

     The following two steps are going to use the option `--monitor` which
     expects that connection string. So copy/paste your actual Postgres URI
     for the monitor in the next steps.

  3. Install and run a primary PostgreSQL instance:

     ~~~ bash
	 $ export PGDATA=./node_a
	 $ export PGPORT=5001

>      $ pg_autoctl create postgres \

Author: As per discussion, I want to stress that you can use the exact same command to create the primary and then the secondary. So I've renamed the PGDATA directory entries instead.

         --hostname localhost \
         --auth trust \
         --ssl-self-signed \
         --monitor 'postgres://autoctl_node@localhost:5000/pg_auto_failover?sslmode=require' \
         --run
     ~~~

  4. Install and run a secondary PostgreSQL instance, using exactly the same
     command, but with a different PGDATA and PGPORT, because we're running
     everything on the same host:

     ~~~ bash
	 $ export PGDATA=./node_2
	 $ export PGPORT=5002
     $ pg_autoctl create postgres \
         --hostname localhost \
         --auth trust \
         --ssl-self-signed \
         --monitor 'postgres://autoctl_node@localhost:5000/pg_auto_failover?sslmode=require' \
         --run
     ~~~

  4. See the state of the new system:

     ~~~ bash

> 	 $ pg_autoctl show state

Author: I did a first round of that, and missed that one. Thanks! Fixed now.

19:06:44 | node_2 |     2 | localhost:5002 |    stop_replication |    stop_replication
19:06:44 | node_2 |     2 | localhost:5002 |    stop_replication |        wait_primary
19:06:44 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |      demote_timeout |             demoted
19:06:44 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |             demoted |             demoted
19:06:44 | node_2 |     2 | localhost:5002 |        wait_primary |        wait_primary
19:06:45 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |             demoted |          catchingup
19:06:46 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |          catchingup |          catchingup
19:06:47 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |          catchingup |           secondary
19:06:47 | node_2 |     2 | localhost:5002 |        wait_primary |             primary
19:06:47 | node_1 |     1 | localhost:5001 |           secondary |           secondary
19:06:48 | node_2 |     2 | localhost:5002 |             primary |             primary
~~~

The promotion of the secondary node is finished when the node reaches the
goal state *wait_primary*. At this point, the application that connects to
the secondary is allowed to proceed with write traffic.

> Because this is a switchover and no nodes have failed, node a that used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is a switchover and no nodes have failed, `node_1` that used to
```

be the primary completes its cycle and joins as a secondary within the same
operation. The Postgres tool `pg_rewind` is used to implement that
transition.

> And there you have done a full failover from your node a, former primary, to
> your node b, new primary. We can have a look at the state now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And there you have done a full failover from your `node_1`, former primary, to
your `node_2`, new primary. We can have a look at the state now:
```
